1. PropTypes are used as a way to check for errors in the data being passed down to a component. Bugs can arise if you mean to pass down a prop that is supposed to be a string, object, boolean etc. and the wrong prop type is passed instead. PropTypes allows us to specify which prop types we should be expecting for each component, so when an issue arises, we can easily identify the issue in the console. PropTypes also allows us to mark certain props as required, and also to define default props in case nothing is passed down. 

2. A React lifecycle event consists of three stages: mounting (birth), updating (growth), and unmounting (death). In the mounting stage, a class component is set up containing all initial data. This data is then rendered to the DOM using the component's render function. Finally, React checks for a ComponentDidMount function, which would update the state with any other necessary data that wasn't defined in the initial state definition, and React re-renders this to the DOM. The updating phase is where the state is changed, such as through setState functions or from new props. This causes React to re-render and then wait for either more updates, or to unmount. The unmounting phase is where the component is removed from the screen to clean up the app, and it is no longer able to be used. 

3. A higher order component is a component that takes another component as its argument. This can be useful for reusing code and creating complex components (such as conditionally rendering components).

4. One way to style components in React is using the Reactstrap library. This library contains pre-styled components that are easy to transfer into your app to save time on styling. It also allows you to import interactive components. A second way to style is using styled-component functions. This allows us to style our components using JavaScript. A benefit to styling this way includes our ability to use props to conditionally style different components. And lastly is normal CSS. It is mainly a matter of preference between this and styled-components. Writing CSS in a separate file can be cleaner and easier to follow for some people.